## Getting Started

### Installation

Add this nuget package to both your **Server** and **Client** Blazor application projects:

```
dotnet add package BitzArt.Blazor.State
```

### Configuration

Call this method in both your **Server** `Program.cs` and **Client** `Program.cs` and reference all assemblies in your project that may contain persistent components:

> ⚠️
> Manually registering assemblies is a temporary step until a better solution is implemented. We expect this step to go away in one of the future releases.

```csharp
builder.Services.AddBlazorState(state =>
{
    state.AddAssembly(someAssembly); // Registers a specified assembly
    state.AddAssemblyContaining<Program>(); // Registers an assembly where the referenced class is declared
});
```

> ℹ️
> You can find more information on registering assemblies in the [source code](https://github.com/BitzArt/Blazor.State/blob/main/src/BitzArt.Blazor.State/Builder/BlazorStateBuilderExtensions.cs)

### Use Blazor.State

To persist your components' state across rendering environments, follow these steps:

#### 1. Inherit from **PersistentComponentBase**

Make sure your persistent components inherit from the **PersistentComponentBase** base class.

```csharp
@inherits PersistentComponentBase // in your .razor file
```

or

```csharp
public class YourComponent: PersistentComponentBase // in your .cs file
```

#### 2. Mark state properties with **[ComponentState]** attribute

Use **ComponentStateAttribute** to mark properties that need to be persisted across rendering environments

```csharp
public class YourComponent: PersistentComponentBase
{
    [ComponentState]
    public int YourProperty { get; set; } = 0;
}
```

#### 3. Make sure the page is stateful

Any page containing persistent components, must also be stateful. This is a requirement due to how **Blazor.State** is implemented under the hood. This can be achieved by making sure your page component inherits from **PersistentComponentBase**, similarly to how [any persistent component would](#1-inherit-from-persistentcomponentbase).

#### 4. Make sure your page meets the state hierarchy requirements

To learn more about page state hierarchy, refer to the [State Hierarchy](03.state-hierarchy.md) section.

#### 5. Include the necessary JS code

> ⚠️
> This is a temporary step until a better solution is implemented. We expect this step to go away in one of the future releases.

Include [this](https://github.com/BitzArt/Blazor.State/blob/main/sample/BitzArt.Blazor.State.SampleApp/BitzArt.Blazor.State.SampleApp.Client/wwwroot/app.js) JS file in your **Client** project's `wwwroot` folder.

Then, also include the following line in your `App.razor`: 

```html
<script src="app.js"></script>
```

#### 6. Enjoy

That's it! Your components' state should now be persisted across rendering environments.

You can learn more about your components' lifecycle in the [Persistent Component Lifecycle](04.persistent-component-lifecycle.md) section.
