## Persistent Component Lifecycle

**Blazor.State** adds several new lifecycle methods to your persistent components, aside from the normal **Blazor** lifecycle methods.

Normally, the component's lifecycle will look something like the following:

1. [RenderTreeBuilder](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.components.rendering.rendertreebuilder) creates a component frame while building a render tree, which implies the component's constructor being called. 

2. The component receives it's initial [parameters](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/#component-parameters). 
 
3. Before proceeding, the component first ensures it's initial prerequisites are met. A prerequisite is considered initial if it's `AllowComponentInitialization` property is `false`.

4. The component's `Initialize` and `InitializeAsync` methods are invoked. This is where you can perform any initialization logic that does not have any dependencies on the component's internal render tree. These method invocations' completion is awaited, allowing the component to prepare it's initial necessary state before the component is first rendered.

5. The component begins rendering.

6. Simultaneously with the component's rendering being triggered, the following steps are also triggered:

    6.1. If this component is being initialized for the second time, and and it's state can be restored from the state generated while prerendering, the component's state is restored. 

    6.2. The component ensures it's secondary prerequisites are met. A prerequisite is considered secondary if it's `AllowComponentInitialization` property is `true`. These prerequisites may depend on the component's internal render tree. Since the component's internal render tree has already started rendering (see 5.), this step can allow the component to wait for some actions to be performed by it's descendants.

    6.3. The component's `OnInitialized` and `OnInitializedAsync` methods are invoked. This is where you can perform any initialization logic that depends on the component's descendants.

    6.4. If this component is being initialized for the first time or component's state was not restored, `InitializeState` and `InitializeStateAsync` methods are invoked. This is where you can initialize component's persistent state, which will be restored (see 6.1.) while the component is being initialized for the second time.


### Lifecycle Methods

#### `InitializeState`

This method is called when the component's state is first initialized. This is the perfect place to initialize your component's state, as it is called only once during the component's lifecycle between the rendering environments. This method will be called when the component is initialized for the first time, and not when the component is re-rendered.

```csharp
public class YourComponent : PersistentComponentBase
{
    [ComponentState]
    public int YourProperty { get; set; } = 0;

    protected override void InitializeState()
    {
        // Initialize your component's state here
        YourProperty = 420;
    }
}
```

#### `InitializeStateAsync`

This method works the same as `InitializeState`, but it is asynchronous. This is useful when you need to perform asynchronous operations to initialize your component's state. This method's invocation will be awaited before proceeding with initializing the component.

```csharp
public class YourComponent : PersistentComponentBase
{
    [ComponentState]
    public int YourProperty { get; set; } = 0;

    protected override async Task InitializeStateAsync()
    {
        // Perform some asynchronous operation
        await Task.Delay(1000);

        YourProperty = 69;
    }
}
```